# CVarViz

A simple web application to aid in the understanding of C variables and
pointers.

While the deployment isn't fully automated (yet), there is a working version of
the application that you can try [on my website](https://cviz.maddyep.com).

## Developers

If you want to play with the project, feel free!

As I work on this, I'm intending to make the development process even simpler
than I believe it already is.
Please be patient as the various bits of automation are worked out!

### Prerequisites

Just [Elm](https://elm-lang.org/) :)

### Building

All you should need to do is:

```console
> elm make --output=static/js/main.js src/Main.elm
```

Then open `index.html` in your favorite browser :)

## Why?

There are at least two reasons:

1. This is a great start to a project idea I had years ago but never followed
   through on.
   I used tables and visuals like those generated by this tool to help students
   learn about pointers, memory, aliasing, and all the fun things that make
   programming in C particularly hard if you're coming from Python, Java, or
   even Rust.
2. Little sis wanted to learn about pointers, so I built a thing to help! :D

This is _definitely_ in the prototype stage; there's much more I'd like to do:

- More complete C parsing and interpretation; at least enough to do
  'interesting' things with points-to (and potentially other!) graphs
  representing programs and their behavior.
- Interactivity; being able to click around the graph structure to explore
  programs would dramatically improve utility, especially if the interface to
  create nodes / edges is improved (since the point is learning about C pointers
  as they are, though, it made pedagogical sense to me to stick with "write C
  definitions, get graphs").
- Documentation / learning materials to accompany the tools.

## Issues?

Thanks for helping to make my software better! :) 

Feel free to open issues if you encounter anything strange, or have an idea to
improve the tool.
Be respectful and kind in any discussions -- generally, I'm a fan of the
guidelines in the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/).

When I'm more organized, I'll establish better/more permanent contribution
guidelines :)
